How to use GPUs (#471)
nebari-dev/nebari-docs: docs/docs/how-tos/use-gpus.mdx

---
id: use-gpus
title: Using GPUs on Nebari

> description: Provide a complete overview of using GPUs on Nebari, including server setup, environment setup, and validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Overview of using GPUs on Nebari including server setup, environment setup, and validation.
```

---

# Using GPUs on Nebari
## Introduction

> Provide a complete overview of using GPUs on Nebari, including server setup, environment setup, and validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overview of using GPUs on Nebari including server setup, environment setup, and validation.
```

## 1. Starting a GPU server

Follow Steps 1 to 3 in the [Authenticate and launch JupyterLab][login-with-keycloak] tutorial. The UI will show a list of profiles (instances, servers, machines).

![Nebari select profile](/img/how-tos/nebari_select_profile.png)
Your administrator pre-configures these options, as described in [Profile Configuration documentation][profile-configuration].

Select an appropriate profile and click "Start".

### Understanding GPU setup on the server.
The following steps describe how to get CUDA-related information from the server.
1. Once your server starts, it will redirect you to a JupyterLab home page.
2. Click on the **"Terminal"** icon.
3. Run the command `nvidia-smi`. The top right corner of the command's output should have the highest supported driver.
    ![nvidia-smi-output](/img/how-tos/nvidia-smi-output.png)

>     If you get `nvidia-smi: command not found`. You are most likely on a non-GPU server. Shutdown your server, and start up a GPU-enabled server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you get the error `nvidia-smi: command not found`, you are most likely on a non-GPU server. Shutdown your server, and start up a GPU-enabled server.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Compatible environments for this server must contain CUDA versions *below* the GPU server version. For example, the server in this case is on 12.4. All environments used on this server must contain packages build with CUDA<=12.4.**

```

## 2. Creating environments

By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we the following.
### Build a GPU-compatible environments

> By default, conda-store will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we have a couple of options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we have two options:
```

> 1. **Creating config using PyTorch documentation**:

Reviewer: We need to swap these two sections (1 & 2). We want approach 2 to be the way folks do it, but just make them aware that approach 1 also exists.

> 1. **Creating config using PyTorch documentation**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Create the environment specification using the CUDA-specific packages as shown in the PyTorch documentation configuration (alternative approach)**:
```

>     You will need to check PyTorch documentation to [select a supported version of CUDA from the support matrix](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to determine the latest override version for `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can check [PyTorch documentation](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to get a quick list of the necessary CUDA-specific packages.
```

Author: Changed.

>     Select the following options to get the latest CUDA version:
>     - PyTorch Build = Stable
>     - Your OS          = Linux
>     - Package          = Conda
>     - Language         = Python
>     - Compute Platform = 12.1 (Choose the latest supported platform)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, 12.1 was the latest supported version. Select the version that matches the `nvidia-smi` output (see above) on your server. 
```

Reviewer: My point was more that you actually DONT want to get the latest CUDA from that interface - you want the CUDA version that matches the GPU that you're running (or less).

Reviewer 2: Actually I was also making a different point. :) 

I want to be sure a person who uses a screen reader can get the information if the list is removed.  I also want to help the user understand what choices to make when using the matrix.  For example, is it ok to use LibTorch on Nebari?  Let's tell them to choose linux, conda, and python.

As far as cuda version, the user will want to know which version of cuda is closest to the one given by `nvidia-smi`, which is unknown until running the matrix.  For example, only 12.1 and lower are compatible right now, so if the user tries to install 12.3, it will fail.

    ![pytorch-linux-conda-version](/img/how-tos/pytorch-linux-conda-version.png)

    The command `conda install` from above is:
    ```
    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia
    ```

>     The corresponding yaml config is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The corresponding yaml config would be:
```

>     ```

Reviewer 2: It's not necessary to use the yaml editor.  The cuda options can be chosen in the gui.  But this is an easy way to show the packages chosen, so I think it's ok.

Author: You are right. It's easier to write docs this way. I will leave it as such.

    channels:
      - pytorch
      - nvidia
      - conda-forge
    dependencies:
      - pytorch
      - pytorch-cuda==12.1
      - torchvision
      - torchaudio
      - ipykernel
    variables: {}
    ```

>     You can use **GUI <-> YAML** Toggle to edit the config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Note that the order of the channels is respected by conda, so keep pytorch at the top, then nvidia, then conda-forge. You can use **GUI <-> YAML** Toggle to edit the config.
```

Author: Updated.

> 2. **Build a GPU-compatible environment in conda-store using `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA`**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Create environment specification using `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` (recommended approach)**:
```

Author: Changed.

    Conda-store provides an alternate mechanism to enable GPU environments via the setting of an environment variable as explained in the [conda-store docs](https://conda.store/conda-store-ui/tutorials/create-envs#set-environment-variables).
    While creating a new config, click on the **GUI <-> YAML** Toggle to edit yaml config.
    ```
    channels:
      - pytorch
      - nvidia
      - conda-forge
    dependencies:
      - pytorch
      - ipykernel
    variables:
      CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA: "12.1"
    ```

>     Replace this section with an override for `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` to tell the conda-store to build a GPU-compatible environment instead of the default CPU-compatible one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Add the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` override to the variables section to tell conda-store to build a GPU-compatible environment.
```

>     ![pytorch-cuda-override.png](/img/how-tos/pytorch-cuda-override.png)

Reviewer 2: The image is redundant with the yaml, so let's remove it.
```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

>     :::note

Reviewer 2: Be sure to only keep the first mention of the max cuda version (after the two sections are swapped).

    - At the time of writing this document, the latest CUDA version was showing as `12.1`. Please follow the above step to determine the latest override value for the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` environment variable.
    - Please ensure that your choice from PyTorch documentation is not greater than the highest supported version in the `nvidia-smi` output (captured above).
    :::

## 3. Validating the setup

> You can validate your setup and ensure that your GPU server is compatible with your GPU-compatible environment with the following process. Open a Jupyter Notebook and load the environment from above. Run the following commands to validate your setup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check that your GPU server is compatible with your conda environment by opening a Jupyter Noteboo, loading the environment, and running the following code:
```

  If you get the error `nvidia-smi: command not found`, you are most likely on a non-GPU server. Shutdown your server, and start up a GPU-enabled server.

  **Compatible environments for this server must contain CUDA versions *below* the GPU server version. For example, the server in this case is on 12.4. All environments used on this server must contain packages build with CUDA<=12.4.**

## 2. Creating environments

  By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we do the following.
  ### Build a GPU-compatible environment
  By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we have two options:
  1. **Create the environment specification using `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` (recommended approach)**:

    Conda-store provides an alternate mechanism to enable GPU environments via the setting of an environment variable as explained in the [conda-store docs](https://conda.store/conda-store-ui/tutorials/create-envs#set-environment-variables).
    While creating a new config, click on the **GUI <-> YAML** Toggle to edit yaml config.
    ```
    channels:

>       - nvidia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
id: use-gpus

> title: Using GPUs on Nebari

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Use GPUs on Nebari
```
This keeps it grammatically correct to the other titles.

## 2. Creating environments

  By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we the following.
  ### Build a GPU-compatible environment
  By default, `conda-store` will build CPU-compatible packages. To build GPU-compatible packages, we have two options:
  1. **Create environment specification using `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` (recommended approach)**:

    Conda-store provides an alternate mechanism to enable GPU environments via the setting of an environment variable as explained in the [conda-store docs](https://conda.store/conda-store-ui/tutorials/create-envs#set-environment-variables).
    While creating a new config, click on the **GUI <-> YAML** Toggle to edit yaml config.
    ```
    channels:
      - pytorch
      - nvidia
      - conda-forge
    dependencies:
      - pytorch
      - ipykernel
    variables:
      CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA: "12.1"
    ```
    Alternatively, you can configure the same config using UI.

    Add the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` override to the variables section to tell conda-store to build a GPU-compatible environment.

>     :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    :::note
```

:::note

>     - At the time of writing this document, the latest CUDA version was showing as `12.1`. Please follow the above step to determine the latest override value for the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` environment variable.
>     - Please ensure that your choice from PyTorch documentation is not greater than the highest supported version in the `nvidia-smi` output (captured above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of writing this document, the latest CUDA version was showing as `12.1`. Please follow the above step to determine the latest override value for the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` environment variable.

Please ensure that your choice from PyTorch documentation is not greater than the highest supported version in the `nvidia-smi` output (captured above).
```

>     :::note
>     - At the time of writing this document, the latest CUDA version was showing as `12.1`. Please follow the above step to determine the latest override value for the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` environment variable.
>     - Please ensure that your choice from PyTorch documentation is not greater than the highest supported version in the `nvidia-smi` output (captured above).
>     :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
    - At the time of writing this document, the latest CUDA version was showing as `12.1`. Please follow the above step to determine the latest override value for the `CONDA_OVERRIDE_CUDA` environment variable.
    - Please ensure that your choice from PyTorch documentation is not greater than the highest supported version in the `nvidia-smi` output (captured above).
:::
```

  2. **Creating config using PyTorch documentation**:
    You can check [PyTorch documentation](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to get a quick list of the necessary CUDA-specific packages.
    Select the following options to get the latest CUDA version:
      - PyTorch Build = Stable
      - Your OS          = Linux
      - Package          = Conda
      - Language         = Python
      - Compute Platform = 12.1 (Choose the latest supported platform)
    Select the version that matches the `nvidia-smi` output (see above) on your server.

    ![pytorch-linux-conda-version](/img/how-tos/pytorch-linux-conda-version.png)

    The command `conda install` from above is:
    ```
    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia
    ```
    The corresponding yaml config would be:
    ```
    channels:
      - pytorch
      - nvidia
      - conda-forge
    dependencies:
      - pytorch
      - pytorch-cuda==12.1
      - torchvision
      - torchaudio
      - ipykernel
    variables: {}
    ```
    :::note
    The order of the channels is respected by conda, so keep pytorch at the top, then nvidia, then conda-forge.

>     note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
